Quiz Questions

Topic: Incentive

1) How to fix the problem that as time goes, the chain of blocks becomes longer and longer, 
which makes mining harder and require more space to construct a full node?

Answer) Use checkpoints instead of syncing from the geneis block. Nodes can do a full sync 
        from a officially recognized checkpoint(created every 30 days), and then 
        continue to do validation of the entire blockchain, with far less storage required 
        compared to a full archive node.


2) There seems to be a lot of overhead with maintaining a blockchain. At what point does the 
cost of maintaining the blockchain outweigh its benefits? How do you incentivize miners when 
they are taking a loss and balance the fact that miners are less incentivized to mine as more 
miners join the network (smaller chance of winning PoW)?

Answer) The point at which the cost of maintaining a node exceeds the net reward (transaction fee + coin based reward), it is no longer profitable to mine.
Following are few ways to increase mining incentives:
--> increase transaction fees
--> increase block size 
--> reduce block times
--> reduce block difficulty
--> increae coin based reward


3) Would the transaction fee increase when the difficulty to get coinbase rewards become higher
 and higher? If so, would that discourage people from using bitcoin?
 
 Answer) Yes. Increasing difficulty will require more resources to mine a block. As a result the cost to mine a block increase. This has to be supplemented with an increae in incentives for the miners to continue to mine, which currently is only possible through an increase in transaction fee. This could potentially discourage people from doing transactions on bitcoin.
 
 
4) Why does the total amount of bitcoin set to be fixed?


5) With time goes by, the reward for building a blockchain decreased. But the difficulty increased, 
which means a pool need more nodes to solve the hashing problem. This will make the miner gain less. 
That said, does this mean the service fee for a transaction is going to increase when time goes?
